We can tell who our owners are! We know if they're here or not!
We all have our own personalities!
We love people!
Don't touch us too often, you may damage our slime coat and it may hurt.
We are near extinct. Raise some of your own axolotls with proper care to help us!
Axolotls have 4 fingers, but 5 toes!
We don't have eyelids, so make sure to put hides for us to rest our little eyes.
We are carnivorous, so the best diet for us are dendrobaena worms or night crawlers.
We live in cold water, ideally between 16°C - 18°C. That's 60.8°F - 64.4°F if you're American.
We are nocturnal! If you see us not doing much during the day, that's normal.
Blood worms are a good snack for us, but only as snacks because they don't have nutrients.
Never take us out of the water as we're fully aquatic!
We are native to only Lake Xochimilco.
We're added to Minecraft.
We have amazing regenerative abilities, we can regenerate almost any part of our body, including parts of our heart and parts of our brains.
We have both gills and lungs, but don't take us out of the water.
Our species is named after the Aztec god Xolotl.
We're very resistant to cancer.
Scientists are studying us in the hopes to make humans regenerate lost limbs.
It doesn't hurt when we accidentally bite you.
We absolutely love begging our owners for food when we see them.
We're great pets, but not easy to take care of.
Water flow shouldn’t be too strong, it stresses us out.
You can tell if we are stressed by looking at how curved forward our gills are, a hooked tail is also a sign of stress.
We have poor eyesight, so we often mistake things for food.
We're opportunistic hunters.
Make sure you can take care of us before actually buying your own axolotl.
Bare bottom or fine sand! We'll eat everything that fits in our mouth, so don't use gravel.
Wild axolotls are rarely white or pink.
We exhibit Neoteny.
We eat by using suction, not by chewing our food.
Axolotls have very few predators.
Adult males have a longer tail than the females and a swollen cloaca which is lined with papilae.
The males often grow longer than the females, but not always.
Our breeding season typically runs from March to June.
Researchers are encouraging axolotls to breed by building 'shelters' in Xochimilco.
Axolotls begin the breeding process with a waltz, it's the initiation phase of mating. Both the male and female will rub and slide against the other’s cloaca while dancing in a circular fashion.
Axolotls may live more than 10 or 15 years
They live in Freshwater lakes, usually murky
They are aquatic, and although they posses rudimentary lungs, they breathe primarily through their gills and, to a lesser extent, their skin
The axolotl genome is the second longest in the animal kingdom, with 32 billion base pairs. That’s 10 times as long as the human genome.
Wild axolotls are rarely white.
 
